Update GC docs for incremental collection. (#1379)
python/devguide: internals/garbage-collector.rst

   the reference counts fall to 0, triggering the destruction of all unreachable
   objects.

Optimization: incremental collection
====================================

In order to limit the time each garbage collection takes, the GC
implementation for the default build uses incremental collection with two
generations.

> The purpose of generations is to take advantage of what is known as the weak

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generational garbage collection takes advantage of what is known as the weak
```

generational hypothesis: Most objects die young.
This has proven to be very close to the reality of many Python
programs as many temporary objects are created and destroyed very quickly.

To take advantage of this fact, all container objects are segregated into
two generations: young and old. Every new object starts in the young generation.

> To collect all unreachable cycles in the heap, the garbage collector must scan the

Reviewer: Perhaps add detection as distinct from collection.

```suggestion
To detect and collect all unreachable cycles in the heap, the garbage collector must scan the
```

> whole heap. This whole heap scan is called a cycle.

Reviewer 2: Maybe consider a different term here (and throughout below) since "cycle" already has an important meaning here and it can be confusing if we overload it:

```suggestion
whole heap. This whole heap scan is called a full collection.
```

Reviewer: Maybe instead of cycle use "full scavenge".

Author: A collection is an increment, so that's not a good term.
Cycle is overloaded, so that's not great either.
"Scavenge" is the least ambiguous, but obscure.

Anyone have any other suggestions? I'll go with "scavenge" if not.

> In order to limit the time each garbage collection takes, the previous algorithm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To limit the time each garbage collection takes, the detection and collection algorithm
```

is executed only on a portion of the heap called an increment. For each cycle,
the increments will cover the whole heap.

Each increment, the portion of the heap scanned by a single collection is made up
of three parts:

* The young generation
* The oldest fraction of the old generation

> * All any objects reachable from those objects that have not yet been scanned this cycle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* All objects reachable from those objects that have not yet been scanned this cycle.
```

> Any objects surviving this collection are moved to the old generation.

Reviewer 2: Maybe clarify that the objects that started in the old generation are considered "youngest of the old" instead of "oldest of the old" now (there's probably a better way of phrasing it).

Author: It isn't really the oldest, it is the "least recently scanned". I'll rework this section.

> ollection from cycles.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

When a cycle starts, no objects in the heap are considered to have been scanned.
When all objects in the heap have been scanned a cycle ends, and all objects are
considered unscanned again.

> In order to collect all unreachable cycles, each increment must contain all of

Reviewer 3: To make sure that I understand this section on unreachable cycles, I think you're saying that we want to ensure that we fully capture the unreachable cycle because we want to ensure that the cycle is either fully gc'd or not, to avoid partial processing, which could be problematic later on?

If so, maybe it's worth mentioning explicitly.

Reviewer 4: I think this could benefit from some concrete simple example either in English or with ascii art or some diagrams or some pseudo code.

an unreachable cycle, or none of it.
In order to make sure that the whole of any unreachable cycle is contained in an
increment,  all unscanned objects reachable from any object in the increment must
be included in the increment.

> Thus, to form a complete increment we perform a transitive closure ove reachable, unscanned

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Thus, to form a complete increment we perform a transitive closure over reachable, unscanned
```

   the reference counts fall to 0, triggering the destruction of all unreachable
   objects.

Optimization: incremental collection
====================================

In order to limit the time each garbage collection takes, the GC implementation
for the default build uses incremental collection with two generations.

Generational garbage collection takes advantage of what is known as the weak
generational hypothesis: Most objects die young.
This has proven to be very close to the reality of many Python
programs as many temporary objects are created and destroyed very quickly.

To take advantage of this fact, all container objects are segregated into

> two generations: young and old. Every new object starts in the young generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
two generations: young and old. Every new object starts in the young generation. For efficiency, scanning the old generation heap for garbage occurs in increments. To keep track of what has been scanned, the old generation contains two lists: scanned and unscanned heap.
```

> To detect and collect all unreachable cycles in the heap, the garbage collector

Reviewer: Perhaps use objects instead of cycles here.
```suggestion
To detect and collect all unreachable objects in the heap, the garbage collector
```

must scan the whole heap. This whole heap scan is called a full scavenge.

To limit the time each garbage collection takes, the detection and collection
algorithm is executed only on a portion of the heap called an increment.
For each full scavenge, the increments will cover the whole heap.

Each increment, the portion of the heap scanned by a single collection is made up
of three parts:

* The young generation

> * The least recently scanned fraction of the old generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The least recently scanned heap portion (or increment) of the old generation.
```

> * All objects reachable from those objects that have not yet been scanned this cycle.

Reviewer 4: Same as my other comments about "cycle"

> * All objects reachable from those objects that have not yet been scanned this cycle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* All objects reachable from those objects that have not yet been scanned.
```

> Any objects surviving this collection are moved to the old generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any young generation objects surviving this collection are moved to the old generation, and reachable objects in the old generation remain in the old generation.
```

> The old generation is composed of two lists, scanned and unscanned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The old generation is composed of two lists: scanned increments and unscanned.
```

(The implementation refers to the unscanned part as ``pending`` and the scanned part
as ``visited``).
Survivors are moved to the back of the scanned list. The old part of increment is taken
from the front of the unscanned list.

> When a cycle starts, no objects in the heap are considered to have been scanned.

Reviewer 4: Using cycle of a "reference cycle" and a "gc execution" it's a bit confusing, can we use other terminology?

Author: I've used "full scavenge"

When all objects in the heap have been scanned a cycle ends, and all objects are
considered unscanned again.

In order to collect all unreachable cycles, each increment must contain all of
an unreachable cycle, or none of it.
In order to make sure that the whole of any unreachable cycle is contained in an
increment,  all unscanned objects reachable from any object in the increment must
be included in the increment.

> Thus, to form a complete increment we perform a transitive closure over reachable,

Reviewer 4: As much as I enjoy proper terminology myself. Many people reading this document may not immediately know what a transitive closure is, could you add a brief explanation in parentheses or just explain the process?

unscanned objects from the initial increment.
We can exclude scanned objects, as they must have been reachable when scanned.
If a scanned object becomes part of an unreachable cycle after being scanned, it

> will not be collected this cycle, but it will be collected next cycle.

Reviewer 4: I think this can benefit from a concrete simple example showing how this can happen and how will be eventually cleaned. Either in English or with some diagram or pseudo code

> The GC implementation for the free-threaded build does not use incremental collection.

Reviewer: This probably should be called out in an Important block.

Every collection operates on the entire heap.

In order to decide when to run, the collector keeps track of the number of object
allocations and deallocations since the last collection. When the number of

> allocations minus the number of deallocations exceeds ``threshold_0``,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allocations minus the number of deallocations exceeds ``threshold0``,
```

> collection starts. ``threshold_1`` determines the fraction of the old
> collection that is included in the increment.
> The fraction is inversely proportional to ``threshold_1``,
> as historically a larger ``threshold_1`` meant that old generation
> collections were performed less frequency.
> ``threshold2`` is ignored.

Reviewer: Correct as mentioned in @mr-bronson's message. Good catch @mr-bronson. :smile:

```suggestion
collection starts. ``threshold1`` determines the fraction of the old
collection that is included in the increment.
The fraction is inversely proportional to ``threshold1``,
as historically a larger ``threshold1`` meant that old generation
collections were performed less frequency.
``threshold2`` is ignored.
```

The content of these generations can be examined using the
``gc.get_objects(generation=NUM)`` function and collections can be triggered
specifically in a generation by calling ``gc.collect(generation=NUM)``.

> Prior to 3.13, there we three generations. For that reason the

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Prior to 3.14, there we three generations. For that reason the
```
